[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: One other thing
I just want to briefly touch on.
There were a couple of you that mentioned
in the pre event surveys that you were
interested in.
We're not going to dive much
more into this ecosystem, but
I do just want to kind of briefly mention
so it's sort of you're aware of it.
There are a couple of tools
that you may have heard
of that are pretty popular these days.
One of them is called Grunt,
the other one is called Gulp.
And in fact, there's other ones,
I think there's one called Broccoli, and
some other ones.
Essentially what these tools are,
are a way to,
in the node tooling ecosystem,
to run build processes.
So we all talk about build processes.
Things like Browserify,
that's a build process.
Running a Linter on your code,
that's a build process step.
Minifying your code,
concatenating your code, transpired-
>> Speaker 2: There's a whole course on
that.
>> Kyle Simpson: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: David Mosher did
a whole course on Grunt.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
you should go look at the Frontend Masters
videos for build processes,
perfect.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: There you go.
So we're not going to spend
a lot of time talking about it.
But I just wanted to orient you to kind of
the mindset behind that kind of argument
between Grunt and Gulp.
Grunt is a configuration based approach.
So you create a configuration
file that specifies,
kind of declaratively, the steps that you
want to have happen in your build process.
And we won't go into
exactly the format of it.
But Grunt came out before Gulp, long
before Gulp, and it got really popular.
A lot of people provided Grunt
files along with their modules.
And then Gulp came along and said, what if
I don't want to do configuration based?
What if I just want to
write the code myself?
I want to do it explicitly
with function calls.
So it's a way of dealing with streams and
piping and
things like that in kind of
a very natural node like way,
with literally almost no
configuration whatsoever.
They're just, in my opinion,
two different sides of the same coin.
I don't really think that one is
fundamentally different or better.
But they're just two different
ways to approach the same task,
which is we want to express the steps that
we need to take in our build processes.
And if you didn't like any of those,
you could go back to using Bash scripts or
make files, or any of the thousand
other options that are out there.
So, I just wanted to share that Grunt and
Gulp are kind of node centric
tools in that build process
environment.
>> Kyle Simpson: Several
of my little side projects,
I still use Grunt.
It doesn't mean that Gulp is bad, it just
means that I learned Grunt first, so.